Hey, Steve, take it easy there, chuck Norris. Why are you kicking that mannequin in the head? Don't worry, Randy, it's just my new martial arts workout. Check it out. Boot to the head. How you pulling me? I'm Steve McLellan. And I'm Randy Hodgens. And while Steve Eve may not be much of a martial artist, he does know his comedy legends, including the creators of Boot to the Head, the Frantics. The group formed in Toronto in 1979 when young comics Paul Chatto, Rick Green, Dan Retikan and Peter Wildman joined forces and soon gained a local following with sketches that featured off the wall humor in the vein of Monty Python and the Goons. By 81, the Frantics had secured their own CBC radio comedy program called Frantic Times. Here's a clip from that show with a playful but pointed view of organized religion. Well, wait a minute. You just said I could go to heaven. Well, the kingdom of heaven is for those who follow the one true path presbyterians. Presbyterians? What about Catholics and mennonites and and all the others who live faithfully by the tenets of their religion? It blew. It next. After the radio show had run its course, the Frantics tried to make the move to the small screen. But a television series called Four on the Floor lasted just 13 weeks and the group began a long hiatus in 1989. While the group may have been inactive in the 90s, its comedy endured and a track titled Taekwon Leap Boot to the Head became a favorite on the Dr. Davento radio show. We heard a short snippet of that cut at the top of the show but it's well worth a longer listen as annoying student Ed Gruberman is introduced to the finer points of Taekwon Leap by his very calm but very quick and accurate sensei. Hey, I wasn't ready. Come and give me now, shorty. Come on. Are you chicken? Boot to the head. Okay. Now I'm ready. Okay now. Come on, try it now. Boot to the head. Mind if I just lie down here for a minute? As time went on, fans began to clamor for a reunion. And in 2004 the Frantics obliged and began issuing new recordings featuring sketches and songs such as this take on the Wild West adventures of noted frontiersman Albert Einstein. Now Einstein claimed that space was curved and mass could be light. Ben. Well, Max Planck tried to prove out wrong. It proved to be plank's end schrodinger was next to try, but Einstein thought faster. Heisenberg was uncertain and fell before the master. Today the Frantics are active on the Web with podcasts that feature the best of their old radio show. Plus new material and a generous assortment of videos and pictures from throughout their 40 year career. You can find out more about The Frantics and all our comedy legends, including video clips and extended audio cuts@laughtracksradio.com. Thanks for listening and until next time, it's goodbye from me and it's goodbye from him. Goodbye, everybody. Thank you.