What if you are a global bank who wanted to crunch billions of transactions against thousands of compliance controls? So you tap IBM to UNSILO your data, and now you can supercharge your audit system with AI. Let's create smarter ways of putting your data to work. IBM, let's create. Learn more@ibm.com. Hey, and welcome to the short stuff. I'm Josh, and there's Chuck and Jerry's. Even here. Dave's not. No one even knows where Dave is right now, but Jerry is here, and that's good. And this is short stuff about Jaywalking. You Jay? Yeah. I think I want to start this out by saying that our mutual friend who shot Stuff You Should Know TV show is the DP scott Ippolito. When we lived in La. Together, he got a Jaywalking ticket one day. Man, that is so Scott. And I was like, what? They do that? And he said, they do that. I could see Scott's face when he actually got a ticket and it was sinking in that he was getting a ticket for Jaywalking. That's great stuff, man. And I think it wasn't even like, crossing against the crosswalk sign. I think he literally just crossed the street where he shouldn't have that. Cops like your face. Yeah, he's got a great face, too, supposedly. That's a thing, too, that we'll talk about later, that Jaywalking is not equitably doled out among the different types of people in the United States, which is sucky. But at the same time, Chuck, we should probably start at the beginning of Jaywalking because Jaywalking hasn't always been around, because cars haven't always been around. And Jaywalking doesn't really exist without the context of cars because thanks to a really interesting Vox article that we found, it turns out the automobile industry is behind the creation and criminalization of the concept of Jaywalking. Before, it was just, here's the street. You're a pedestrian, which means you're basically on the street. Go ahead and cross wherever you want. Yeah. So shout out to Vox and our old pals from housestuffworks.com for this stuff. What I couldn't derive from the Vox article well, let's just go ahead and say this. The term J back then was a name. If you were like a rube or a nudge or a hick, you would be called A-J-A lot of times, it was a name for somebody like that. It was very derogatory. It's my new one. You can call someone J. Yeah, I like that. But people were called jade drivers, or they were known as jay driving. But it seemed like Vox had it the other way around and that jay driving came about after the term Jaywalking, and I couldn't figure out which it was. I couldn't either. But they were so very close that they were pretty much created almost at the same time. But they were both born, it seems like, out of this conflict between automotive drivers, car drivers, we might call them today, and pedestrians people who are just walking around because like I was saying before, the street belonged to everybody and there were like horse drawn carriages and all that stuff. But for the most part, people were on foot. And the first people who were driving cars were super rich gadflies, basically like FScott. Fitzgerald types were the ones who were driving automotives at first. And so there was certainly class resentment out of the gate. But there was also more than anything, resentment for people who were just zipping through the streets that were crowded with people, including children playing in the street, because that was a normal thing to do. And so there was a tension almost out of the gate between drivers and pedestrians. Yeah, I mean, the drivers essentially were like, get off the road. And the Walkers were like, wait a minute, the roads belong to us? And they said, no, that's why we started building sidewalks. And the walkers were like, what? You want us to walk over there on that little four foot span when we've lived our whole life in the streets? There's cracks there that I can't step on. The term J driving. I think it may have been first, though, because this was like the 1920s when the automobile really started to come on the scene and started, like, making a legit claim to the streets. Yeah, and it looks like Jay driving was in an actual newspaper in 1905. And the Kansas junction City union and the Kansas City Star talked about Jay driving. So I think that may have been first. And this was driving on the wrong side of the road. And then initially jaywalking meant just being rude on the sidewalk. And I don't know if it was right or left base, but basically walking in a way that wasn't appropriate on the sidewalk. Yeah, that's the how stuff works spiel. If you read that Vox article, it's basically saying that jaywalkers were called that for getting in the way of cars. It was a derogatory term for people who didn't know better to stay out of these new awesome cars way. And then in response, people driving cars, J drivers, because they didn't. It was just a retaliatory term from what I could tell. So this shall be known henceforth as the Great House. Stuff works. Fox brawl. Yeah, exactly. 2022 between J house stuff works and JVAC. But the long and the short of it is that once this started to be a thing, the automobile industry got involved and their lobby and their money got involved and they got together with local police forces and they started initially like a shame campaign, didn't they? To shame people that were jaywalking. Yeah, there was apparently the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce who had the bright idea of creating a free wire service for local journalists where the journalists would send in the details of a car accident, like a pedestrian hit by a car. And the wire service would send them back a full article. Go ahead and run it. You can put your name on it if you want. But it would put the onus on the pedestrian. It would talk about how the pedestrian was a dummy for not getting out of the way of the car. It was the pedestrians fault. And that was the level of underhandedness that this campaign was taking. Yeah. And as far as the shame campaign, it was literally on the streets. Like, they would advise police officers to shout them down, to blow their whistles at them and call attention to them. There were legit 1940s 50s style propaganda posters about jaywalking that they would put up, and all of a sudden, the pedestrian was was, you know, persona non grada in the United States. Yeah. And then in very short order, they started making crosswalks. And then in very short order after that, there were laws that were passed that said, this is the only place you can cross the street and be within the letter of the law. And as a result, cars came to dominate streets for the first time ever pretty quickly after they were invented and introduced. And I say we take a break and then talk about those laws that kind of came up as a result of that. Automotive industry lobbying. Let's do it. Well, now, when you're on the road driving in your truck, why not learn a thing or two from Josh and Chuck? It's stuff you should know. Stuff you should know. All right. What if you were a global energy company with operations in Scotland, technologists in India, and customers, all on different systems? You need to pull it together. So you call in IBM and Red Hat to create an open hybrid cloud platform. Now, data is available anywhere, securely, and your digital transformation is helping find new ways to unlock energy around the world. Let's create a hybrid cloud that can change an industry. IBM, let's create. Learn more@ibm.com. I'm manga shatikae. And to be honest, I don't believe in astrology. But from the moment I was born, it's been a part of my life in India. It's like smoking. You might not smoke, but you're going to get secondhand astrology. And lately I've been wondering if the universe has been trying to tell me to stop running and pay attention, because maybe there is magic in the stars if you're willing to look for it. So I rounded up some friends and we dove in. And let me tell you, it got weird fast. Tantric curses, major League Baseball teams, canceled marriages, kpop. But just when I thought I had a handle on this sweet and curious show about astrology, my whole world came crashing down. Situation doesn't look good. There is risk to father. And my whole view on astrology, it changed. Whether you're a skeptic or a believer, I think your ideas are going to change, too. Listen to Skyline Drive starting November 29 at the iHeartRadio app Apple podcast, wherever you get your podcast. All right, so back in 1925, Herbert Hoover, apparently, who was the Commerce secretary at the time, before he was president, he wrote up a uniform law that that guided pedestrian behavior in the hopes that everybody would just adopt this law and it would make sense. But instead, a patchwork of not just state laws, but municipal laws arose. So depending on where you are in the country, the law is going to be radically different from somewhere else in the country about whether you're in the right or the wrong for getting hit by that car. Yeah, that's still this thing today. It depends on what city you're in. And this is, like you said, even sometimes small towns and municipalities all the way up to big cities, like in New York, people jaywalk that's the only way you can get anywhere in New York is if you just kind of do your own thing. And I've never seen anyone get busted for it. It seems like it's acceptable to do there. In Los Angeles. It's weird. Like, people will stop, and if there's no cars coming, they will sit there. They will stand there and wait at a crosswalk until it turns. It's much less pedestrian friendly than New York is, obviously, but depending on where you are, it's either a faux PA to do it, or it's downright illegal. If you're talking right of way, it's anybody's guess sometimes who technically, legally has the right of way. There's an old saying that the right of way is something you give, not take. Especially when you're in a car and someone's walking. I think you should always sort of be nice and defer to the person walking. Right. Don't you think? Yeah, of course. And the overall points of this is that if you're driving a car, you're not really in any sort of danger of being harmed yourself if you get in an accident with a pedestrian. But a pedestrian is in a lot of danger for getting hit by a car. And so you, as the operator of the car, have a responsibility to look out for pedestrians. And then conversely, you, as a pedestrian, just out of a sense of self preservation, have a responsibility not just walk in front of cars and presume they're going to stop. Yeah, because here's a stat. 3% of traffic incidents involved pedestrians, but 14% of traffic deaths are pedestrians, and I think 70% of those fatalities are outside of intersections. Just people crossing the street or whatever, wherever they want. Yeah. So the National Highway Transportation Safety Administration put together a publication called Pedestrian Safety Enforcement Operations. And you colon a how to guide. I added the and you part. Okay. And they basically it instructs cops to just go ahead and cite everybody, cite the driver and the pedestrian if there's any kind of accident, but they recommend really bringing the hammer down on drivers because they're the ones who are going to cause the most damage. So they really need to be taught to be on the lookout for pedestrians, even if the car has the right of way. This How Stuff works article makes a really great point. Regardless of any local laws of who's right or who's wrong, if you're a driver and you hit a pedestrian, it doesn't matter whether you're in the right or wrong. You just hit somebody and maybe seriously injured or maybe even killed them. And that's a life changing event. So forget the laws. Just look out for pedestrians at all times. Maybe if you actually do hit somebody, you can look into local laws to see what the deal is or have your lawyer do it. But up to that point, you should be looking out for pedestrians. And if you're a pedestrian, you should never ever in a million years ever be looking at your cell phone when you step off of a curb and cross the street. It is one of the dumbest, most easily avoidable things that you can do. And yet it happens everywhere. Yeah, I mean, there are towns that have in cities that have, I think, distracted pedestrian laws on the books for stuff just like that. Right? Yeah. And I also want to put in two cent for enforcing distracted drivers laws. Like, just seeing people driving around, looking at their phone, it makes me crazy. It makes my blood boil. Like, if blood could boil, I would say it literally makes my blood boil. Speeding down the highway, just staring into their lap. Oh, my God. 80 miles an hour. It's unbelievable. Yeah. Or like they'll drop down all of a sudden from 80 to like, 60 because they're checking their phone now and they're not really paying attention. But yeah, no matter how you're doing it, it's just wrong, wrong. You're wrong, you're wrong. Yeah, I used to give a nice little friendly tap with someone in front of me at a red light. Hadn't gone yet. On the horn. Oh, on the horn. I see. Yeah, not the bumper, but now when I see the head down and they're on the phone, I lay on it. I don't care. Yeah, I'm with you. I got one more quick story, if I may. Sure. To illustrate yielding to pedestrians. It was Christmas Eve this year, and I was coming down McLendon through the neighborhoods of Atlanta toward Candler Park, and there's kind of a funky pedestrian crossing there that's a little it's not very intuitive. And there was a legit elderly couple, like maybe in their 80s even, sort of like, should I go? Should I not? And they shouldn't have, but I could tell that they were confused, so I stopped and they started to go. And a guy coming from the other direction laid on his horn and was, like, screaming and pointing up at the sign saying they shouldn't be walking as he went by on Christmas Eve, this elderly couple, and he was like he didn't look like some young jerk. He was like some middle aged guy. I think he had a normal middle aged passenger. Yeah, they're the worst, actually. Yeah, those are the ones you have to look out for the most. Oh. It just made me so mad. I couldn't believe that this guy just blew through there. Like, what it would have cost him to just let this whole couple pass. I know. And you see that so much. Everybody's so keyed up these days. But it seems like Middle Ages are the most keyed up of all. I know. It's a time to be keyed up, which also means it's a time to be kinder than ever. Yeah. That's good advice, Chuck. All right, I'm done off the soapbox. I've got one more thing. Apparently, there was a 2012 study that looked at how jaywalking is enforced among races, and depending on the town you're in, you are much likelier to be cited for jaywalking if you're a person of color. Champagne Urbana, Illinois, is the one that's usually trotted out as the shameful poster child for this. But the 89% of people back in 2012 who were cited for jaywalking were black, despite only 12.4% of the population of Champagne Urbana, Illinois, being black. For shame. And it's not just them. This happens in towns all over the country. But it's, like, bad enough to get a ticket for jaywalking, but if it's not being doled out evenly, then that is even worse. Agreed. Be careful out there. Be nice to people. That's all I got. I think that's good. Well, then that means everybody's short stuff is out. Stuff you should know is a production of iHeartRadio. For more podcasts my Heart radio, visit the iHeartRadio App, Apple podcasts, or wherever you listen to your favorite shows.