Can Alexa be your best buddy? Not now, but probably very soon. Can Alexa be your best buddy? Well, not now, but probably very soon. We have been seeing gigantic leaps in terms of natural we have been seeing gigantic leaps over the last couple of years in terms of how computers can understand and use natural language. This is all thanks to the subdiscipline of AI called Natural Language Processing, or NLP for short. NLP is the practice of making sense of audio NLP is the practice of making sense of naturally spoken language, mostly in text form. NLP is the practice of making sense of naturally spoken language, but mostly in text form. NLP is the practice of making sense of natural language, mostly in text form. NLP is the practice of making sense of NLP is the NLP is the practice NLP is the practice of making sense of natural language under its umbrella, there are a bunch of umbrella. There are many tasks that we use under its umbrella, there are many tasks that we have conquered already to a good degree, like machine translation, text classification, sentiment analysis or summarization. But these are not enough. The essence but the ultimate goal is to make a model that can encapsulate the actual essence of language. As we make better models, we get closer to unlocking a whole new set of data for use in developing better systems. As we make better and better models, we get closer to unlocking a whole new set of data to making even better systems and make it easier for humans to communicate with these systems, no matter how tech savvy they are or not. How do these happen? Well, mostly how do these happen? How are these models made? Well, mostly with convolutional neural networks and recurrent neural networks and some of these how are these models made? Well, mostly with convolutional neural networks and recurrent neural networks. Sometimes we have some variations of these two and very recently transformer models with attention mechanisms on them. And it's not hard to include an LP in your projects. There are many APIs and services online that you can use even for free. Check out some of these options to check out API you can use APIs offered by companies, you can use APIs offered by companies, or you can use Python Library to include NLP functionalities in your project. You can use APIs as a service you can use NLP APIs as a service or include a model by finetuning it to your specific problem. NLP is a practice of making sense of audio naturally spoken language mostly. NLP is a practice of making sense of naturally spoken language.